feat: add pete-local skill for pre-PR test-coverage previews (#14305)
posit-dev/positron: .claude/skills/pete-local/SKILL.md

---

> name: pete-local

Reviewer: Can we change it so the command would be `/pete`?
```suggestion
name: pete
```

> description: Run PETE's test-coverage analysis locally on the current branch / working tree, as a pre-PR preview of the verdict the CI PR Test Checker (PETE) will post. Uses the same rubric and file classification as CI. Use when asked to "run PETE locally", preview test coverage before opening a PR, or check whether the current branch has adequate tests.

Reviewer: I think we should be a bit more detailed about *what* PETE is here, for agents' sake:

```suggestion
description: Preview the test-coverage verdict PETE will post, locally, before a PR exists. PETE is Positron's CI "PR Test Checker": it grades whether a PR adds adequate tests for its source changes and posts a verdict comment. This skill replays the same rubric and file classification against your working tree (committed + uncommitted + untracked changes vs the merge-base with the default branch) and renders the verdict in-session -- it posts nothing and needs no network or gh. Use when asked to "run PETE" / "run PETE locally", to preview or check test coverage before opening or pushing a PR, to see whether the current branch has adequate tests, or to anticipate what PETE / the PR Test Checker will say.
```

3. **Read the rubric.** Otherwise, `Read` the shared rubric at `.claude/skills/pr-test-checker/SKILL.md`. That file is the single source of truth for the taxonomy, cost guidance, deployment coverage, decision rule, investigation steps, verdict table, output template, and constraints. Follow it exactly.

4. **Read the gathered context.** `Read` the `pete-context.json` you wrote in step 1. It contains the change metadata, the pre-classified file list (`files[].category`), and the diff. Treat this as the "Inputs you'll receive" the rubric describes. The repo checkout you Read/Grep/Glob is the current working tree.

5. **Grade.** Carry out the rubric's Investigation steps against the diff and the working tree, then produce the verdict in the rubric's exact Output-format template. Honor every Constraint (cite real files only, one verdict, keep it under ~80 lines, etc.).

6. **Swap the footer for a local-preview note.** The rubric's output template ends with a CI footer that mentions `/recheck-tests`. That mechanism does not exist locally, so replace that final `<small>...</small>` footer line with:

   ```

>    <small>PETE local preview -- not posted to any PR. Graded from your working tree (HEAD vs the merge-base with the default branch). CI PETE grades on Opus; on a different model the verdict may differ. Open a PR to get the official PETE check.</small>

Reviewer: `<small>` doesn't render in Claude Code:

<img width="2034" height="60" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/eb843fa2-9ee2-4a07-a396-36d9091f4909" />

Author: Good catch! Just pushed a fix to make it markdown instead. (and caught another one like it)
